---
title: "Computational Methods to Develops Models for Analysis of Aneurysmal Risk: A Meta-Analysis"
date: 2021-05-03T08:06:25+06:00
description: Just a bit of writing
menu:
  sidebar:
    name: Modelling Aneurysms with Computational Flows Dynamics
    identifier: aneurysms
    parent: writings
    weight: 5
hero: bkg.jpg
tags: ["Markdown","Content Organization","Multi-lingual"]
categories: ["Basic"]
---

> ## THIS SECTION IS STILL UNDER CONSTRUCTION


#### Introduction 
Intracranial Aneurysms (IA) also known as cerebral aneurysms or brain aneurysm, can be a fatal progression in which there is a 50-60% mortality rate. IA develops through a ballooning of a weak region in the brain blood vessel from the ongoing pressure of blood pumping as seen in Fig. 1. Oftentimes, aneurysms will develop in locations where the arteries of the blood vessels bifurcate causing the walls at this location in the vessels to be weaker.[1]. Health problems such as high blood pressure or lifestyle habits can contribute to higher risk of rupturing IAs [2]. 
Ruptured aneurysms are often treated with medical procedures through surgical clipping or endovascular treatment. Unruptured aneurysms are also a common occurrence in which 50-80% of IAs do not rupture during a lifetime. While ruptured aneurysms will almost always be treated medically, unruptured aneurysms can be difficult to determine the optimal treatment since the risks of treatment can outweigh the benefits. Careful monitoring of these unruptured aneurysms for future risk must be done through the analysis of the brain vessels. 
	Standard approaches to understanding IAs are studying the pathobiology of IAs and computational fluid dynamics (CFD) analysis. Pathobiology of IAs mainly relates to endothelial cells (ECs), which are known to be able to respond to the changes in blood flow. Cell signaling and mechano-sensors are utilized by the cells in order to maintain homeostasis. Many responses of ECs such as cell death or shedding can contribute to a weakened wall in the blood vessel. Importantly, ECs with its ability to detect blood flow changes can detect wall shear stresses (WSS) in the blood vessels which has great importance in the context of biotransport. In particular, because of the natural curvatures of the blood vessels, normal flow can change to turbulent flow causing varying shear rates, thus affecting ECs with its ability to sense the change in this wall shear stress. This flow change to turbulence can be seen in Fig. [2]. With turbulent flow, it is known that inertial forces are of greater effect than viscous forces. The blood vessels can result in stenosis or aneurysms.
	CFD analysis accounts for a lot of the different biotransport properties used to calculate the model for the flow. Fig. [3] shows the possible options that are available for each condition that could be varied for a IA CFD Model. A discussion that affects the CFD model is its assumption for blood being a Newtonian fluid or non-Newtonian fluid. Most early CFD studies use the assumption for blood flow being a Newtonian fluid and having laminar flow. However, as studies have progressed, it is known that blood can oftentimes be non-Newtonian and transitions to turbulent flow as this is what leads to aneurysms as seen in Hemodynamic factors of Fig. [4]. Low shear stress that occurs in turbulent flow can progress to aneurysms with long-term endothelial dysfunction. 
Both pathobiology of ECs and CFD of blood flow will be looked at in order to see how changes in blood flow and changes in vessel shapes can affect flow and endothelial cells in effect. 
	While CFD is the common approach to studying the specifics of flow, there is an alternative with 7D-MRV through the usage of MRI and contrast. While the details of the flow are less accurate than the CFD method, there are some merits worth exploring through its avoidance of calculations that are required for CFD while still being able to account for a majority of flow properties.

#### Computational Methods to Calculate Velocity Fields - Computational Fluid Dynamics
In order to correctly model the velocity field within a vessel, a 3D angiogram is taken to create a virtual model. The most common method is Computational Fluid Dynamics Modeling (CFD), a “ highly-automated hemodynamic modeling” which requires inputs from Computational Tomography Angiography (CTA) and 3D Rotating Angiogram (3DRA) [3]. 
The process begins with identifying the region of interest (ROI) of the vessel which has the aneurysm, and taking a 3D angiogram. After which a mesh is generated and cleaned up to replicate the artery geometry.The necessary inflow conditions (flow rate and heart rate) are manually inserted based on patient data.The given flow conditions gives the inflow spatial velocity profile as a combination of  steady parabolic and an oscillatory Womersley profile: (u(r, t) = uparabolic(r) + uoscillatory(r, t; Wo)). The equations for the steady parabolic component is  uparabolic(r) = U0(1 - r2/R2) while the oscillatory component is based on the Womersley number (Wo=R√(ρ2πf0/μ)), with f0  representing heart rate. Assumptions made include newtonian and incompressible fluid. Equation 2 is solved without pressure gradient to get intermediate velocity profiles. Equation 1 gives the Poisson equation for pressure, which can be used in Equation 2 to correct the velocity field. The wall shear stress is calculated with Equation 3, with ∇u as the velocity gradient tensor, and t and n are the direction tangent and normal to the wall.
Results of these computations can be seen in Figures 5.1-5.3, and show the relative change in magnitude of velocity and shear stress in different vessels as a result of aneurysms. 



#### Computational Methods to Calculate Velocity Fields -  Phase Contrast Magnetic Resonance Imaging
	Another method for calculating velocity fields, multi- dimensional phase contrast MRI allows for direct measurement of velocity fields (known as 7D- MRV). 7D-MRV uses “seven-dimensional data set consisting of each of the three components of the velocity vector, 
along each of the three coordinate axes covering the volume of interest, and at each phase of the cardiac cycle” [4]. This method may be preferred over CFD analysis as it requires less calculations. The process begins by taking a contrast enhanced MRI using a 3D slab by  injecting the blood vessel with 18 ml GdDTPA followed by 15ml of saline. Then, flow rate is gained from through-plane phase contrast MRV in planes transverse to vertebral arteries, using thirty two time points throughout the cardiac cycle to gain the time varying inlet boundary conditions. Lastly, 7D- MRV data set is gained from a 3D slab in longitudinal plane with 8-12 partitions and velocity encoded in the three directions with three different encoding levels based on the patient's data. 
	Figure 6.1 compares the velocity representation of three patients computed by CFD and 7D MRV respectively. It reveals that they give similar results when it comes to velocity, but CFD seems to provide a clearer image. This shows 7D MRV has its limitations when it comes to local velocity magnitude and shear stress estimation (not shown). Spatial averaging results from poor spatial resolution in MRI, especially in areas with varying velocities. This combined with a limited temporal resolution causes averaging of the measured velocity, greatly changing the computed velocity gradient compared to CFD. This causes the max and wall shear stress to be greatly altered as seen in Figure 6.2. The altered velocity gradients cause lower resolution imaging in 7D MRV compared to CFD. Although it may be a less complicated approach, 7D MRV still has its limitations before it can provide precise measurements. 

#### Fluid Dynamic Properties Which Predict Rupture Risk 
	With the use of CFD, various parameters can be manipulated to observe their impact on rupture risk. For CFD analysis, blood pressure, flow velocity, blood viscosity, and heart rate are usually fixed as these parameters are patient specific. In a study done by Yuichi Murayama and co. in 2019, the parameters that were looked at included wall shear stress (WSS), oscillatory shear index (OSI), pressure difference (PD), and pressure loss coefficient (PLC) [5] . WSS is the frictional force on the arterial wall produced by blood flow. OSI measures the disturbance of the flow field caused by directional changes of WSS during the cardiac cycle. PD is the pressure elevation at an aneurysm wall, while PLC is the pressure loss due to the shape of an aneurysm and other obstacles of blood flow. 
Formation of aneurysm is initiated by high WSS, however development of the aneurysm differs depending on whether WSS remains high or becomes low. When remaining high (positive WSS gradient) , cell degeneration and apoptosis occurs, leading to a ruptured aneurysm, regardless of how large the aneurysm is. However if WSS lowers (Negative WSS gradient), aneurysm growth occurs due to increased inflammation,which may rupture or stabilize. 	
Observations showed that both high and low WSS were recorded in various ruptured aneurysms. This required further evaluation of aneurysmal conditions, leading to the conclusion that high WSS at thin and hard wall areas of the aneurysm lead to rupture. One of the observed causes of high WSS was due to blood flow impingement along the aneurysmal wall. It was also discovered that high WSS and a positive WSS gradient led to mural cell- mediated destructive remodeling.For low WSS, the arterial walls were shown to be thinning, which prevented it from handling the arterial pressure and rupturing. It was observed that low WSS and high OSI leads to inflammatory cell- mediated destructive remodeling. Studies had also shown that PLC was lower in rupture, leading to the conclusion that aneurysms are more likely to rupture if blood flow was stable within it. 

#### Effect of Flow Type on Endothelium Cells
Flow types in the blood vessel can dictate how ECs will respond to each of the corresponding flows. In a study by Jeng-Jiann and Shu Chien, wounded endothelial cells are put into each of the flow types in order to see the migration of endothelial cells to promote wound healing [7]. As seen in Fig. 7, there is a significant increase in the migration of ECs under laminar flow compared to the static control. However, disturbed flow had no significant increase for promoting wound healing. There has also been evidence that disturbed flow caused cell loss with the same flow causing a migration of ECs away from the area of high shear stress, which could all contribute to the initiation and growth of aneurysms. 
In another study by Cheng et al., they inserted a vessel with a conical device that served as a cast mimicking the shape of a stenosis, increasing the shear stress along the length of the cast reaching a final shear stress at 25 dyn/cm2. As a result of this cast, there is a disturbed flow observed in which flow occurs in a circular eddy current-like fashion compared to the straight control vessel where there is only laminar flow as seen in Fig. 8. These results summarize that a reduction in flow and shear stress could result in a sustained promotion of ECs signaling inflammation as well as showing their inability to realign with flow. 
Porat et al. studied the tie1 promoter in tie1-lacZ transgenic mice. They found that the promoter was enhanced in regions of the blood vessels where there were vascular bifurcations and branch points. As shown in Fig [4], these bifurcations and branch points result in disturbed/turbulent flow. This was induced through surgically moving a vein and attaching it to an artery. This enlargement of the diameter of a vessel is synonymous with the enlargement following the stenotic cast. The flow change to a disturbed flow resulted in an upregulation of the tie1 promoter. Tie1 is known to be involved in the proinflammatory effects within ECs.
	In a table of observed gene changes and corresponding responses of in vitro and in vivo, when Tie1 increased in vivo, the response included regions of flow obstruction in aneurysms. 
Flow going from a bigger radial area in the blood vessel results in a disturbed flow with low and reciprocating shear stress as seen in the stenosis cast. This could correlate with the higher radial area of the aneurysms causing the same distbured flow resulting in aneurysm propagation.

#### Results: 
Thus far we have successfully identified two different mediums for developing a model to predict aneurysmal formation, and more importantly, aneurysmal rupture. We have documented the parameters that typically contribute to aneurysmal formation and rupture, two of the most notable predictors being wall shear stress (WSS) and the pressure loss coefficient (PLC). Both of the metrics not only contribute to aneurysm risk mechanically, but also through epigenetic modifications experienced by affected endothelial cells. In the next section we discussed how shear stresses experienced by ECs in turn produce a domino affect as they incur gene expression differences. And we finish by qualifying how flow differences, induced by aneurysmal geometry, can actually accentuate the rate and propensity of these epigenetic modifications. Here, we analyze the results and notable discoveries that arise from these models. First, a direct comparison of the two main methods investigated, CFD and MRV, follows: 








#### Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD)
Phase Contrast Magnetic Resonance Imaging (7D-MRV)
Benefits
Well documented, adjacent literature and technologies already developed
Computational capabilities allows for very high resolution calculations and images 
Spatial averaging effect (essentially to produce smooth stress transitions) facilitates a lower contrast between high and low shear zones 
Agreement with CFD calculations
Very good at delineating the actual structure of the velocity profile
Avoids some of the complexities involved with CFD analysis
Drawbacks
Difficult to acquire surface and volume meshes
Requires substantial human intervention in the case they are generated to clean up prior to usage
Sensitive to “quality of the segmentation and grid generation, [which] might necessitate attention to the quality of the segmented geometry and computational grid” [7]
Limiting boundary conditions used based upon the masking function
No slip, stationary wall
Rigid wall assumption
Much lower spatial and temporal resolution that affect the calculation of the velocity field and wall shear stresses (these are vital as the WSS affects aneurysm formation, growth and hemorrhage) 
R2 = 0.54
Absolute values of shear stress were different in comparison to the CFD
Also requires oversight in the generation of mesh
Liable to inaccuracies in the device (variations in the magnetic field affect the image detected, and these are variable with regard to the location and magnitude of the eddy currents)
Also due to uncorrected Maxwell terms
Poorly estimates transient events due to temporal resolution limitations
Velocity to noise ratio is compromised when there is slow flow - which typically occurs at the lumen
A reminder that in CFD this issue does not occur
Rigid wall assumption
Inputs/Ease of Gathering
Computational Tomography Angiography (CTA)
Combination of a computerized tomography scan (CT scan) and an injectable dye administered intravenously to visualize blood vessels and tissues
3D Rotating Angiogram (3DRA)
A rotating C-Arm (mobile X-Ray unit) rotates around the section of interest and acquires a series of x-ray images that are stitched together to form a CT-like 3D volume through complex algorithms
Also known as flat-panel volume CT and cone-beam CT [8]
CE-MRA 
Pretty available as the specified strength of the MRI (1.5T) is widely available and the injectable substrates are as well
Background noise, accessory vessels and other obstructive structures must be removed and followed up with Laplacian Smoothing
Areas to Improve
Scalability of the input data can be improved to increase sample sizes 
Mesh segmentation and development can be streamlined to reduce human intervention
Rigid wall assumption affects calculation as the arterial walls are liable to deformation
Can be solved by integration finite element analysis (FEA) into the delineating of the wall shear stresses
Accuracy of WSS data as it is one of the precursors for aneurysm formation
Higher spatial and temporal resolution
Issues with boundary conditions and signal to noise ratio especially close to wall
Recommended to combine MRI/MRV with CFD to fix this 
Accuracy of MRIs to provide consistent magnetic field
This already has been accomplished
Use of intravascular contrast agents
Not generally approved for use in patients


To glean from this comparison - the strengths, weaknesses, applicability, and ultimately what can be gained from each method and how the input parameters affect their viability. Furthermore, how disease progression and the worsening of the aneurysm affect our model development. 
	First to note: CFD and 7D MRV agree with regard to flow profile very well[4]. Generally, it has been found that across methods and some parameters (CFD vs MRV, Newtonian vs non-Newtonian, etc.) the geometry of the resulting profiles are conserved. Even with respect to our main predictor of rupture, WSS - “ the maps of WSS provided by the two methods show agreement with regard to the locations where WSS was relatively high, and where it was relatively low”[4]. Where they disagree is in the absolute values of the shear stress, which ultimately affect nearly every other metric used to predict rupture risk, including the aforementioned OSS and WSS. What is to be realized is this: CFD produces very high resolution, high contrast, and both computationally and time intensive models while 7D MRV produces quicker, smoother, lower resolution models that have the tendency to misestimate max stresses and WSS.
	Lastly, let us investigate how these models differ based on disease progression, and evaluate the clinical effectiveness of the CFD model in predicting rupture. Naturally, as the aneurysm progresses and bulges, its geometry changes. These changes both inherently affect the flow rate, and ultimately the WSS and OSS which signal to the ECs to alter gene expression. But more interestingly enough, the flow itself tends to become more distrurbed over the course of disease progression. This perturbation has several effects. First, is the formation of intra-aneurysmal vortices which affect platelet dynamics and resultantly the viscous behavior of the fluid. The disturbed flow also has the propensity to cause flow stagnation, which, as stated above, thoroughly reduces the effectiveness of many of the models which have trouble processing low velocity flow rates. And in fact, 72% of rupture aneurysms had complex or unstable flow patterns, and 73% of unruptured aneurysms had simple, stable flow patterns [9,10]. Because of this, it is even more imperative that these disturbed, highly unusual flow characteristics are factored into the prediction model, because they are typically the circumstances that lead to rupture. Overall, during the course of disease progression, the nature of the flow, gene expression of the ECs, experienced WSS and viscous properties of the blood flow are all altered. This in turn further complexifies modelling aneurysms. Nonetheless, clinical studies comparing CFD effectiveness have been promising. In a recent paper by Cho et al. chronicles the results of developing their own modified CFD model while comparing it to clinical outcomes [11]. After  the development of their model, which meshed current CFD techniques with novel FEA analysis for artery deformation (this elaborated on in more depth in the next section), they found that they were able to predict 24 out of 27 unruptured aneurysms, and 15 out of 24 ruptured aneurysms. The sensitivity of this analysis (62.5%) and specificity (88.9%) are extremely promising, even given the plethora of inaccuracies due to mesh generation, calculations, and patient specific variability. Ultimately, CFD and MRV analysis are capable of building surprisingly accurate models which need to factor in the progression of the disease to accuarately predict risk scenarios prior to operation. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
#### Future Research:
	Some of the most considerable and sought after research developments in the field of bioengineering focus on predictive technologies. Whether that be the prediction of Alzheiemer’s long before clinical identification using machine learning algorithms and high resolution 7T MRI imaging, or the prediction of the risk of rupture for intracranial aneurysms, these technologies yield the most direct benefits to patients and clinicians. 
One area of contention, both for simple fluid dynamic problems and intense ones,  is typically the assumptions being used. In both techniques, CFD and MRV, there is a rigid wall assumption used. In both techniques, accounts for wall deformation were omitted as they  increased complexity, and for lack of a need as “aneurysmal blood vessels lack elastin and therefore have little compliance. In addition, cine images show no appreciable motion of the aneurysmal vessel wall over the cardiac cycle.  Even if the relatively small distentsions seen in healthy vessels were present in the diseased arteries, their effects on the velocity field are much smaller than those that result from vessel geometry”[4]. This is indeed true for the development of steady state normotensive cardiac cycle modelling. However, in the extreme case of an aneurysmal hemorrhage, which is of particular interest in the development of these models, the ECs undergo considerable levels of stress that affect these dynamics. So much so that the typical CFD model “has a natural limitation in that the effects of the wall thickness and mechanical properties of the blood vessels are ignored in the CFD analysis,” naturally because the “rupture of the aneurysm is significantly influenced by wall thickness and the mechanical property of aneurysms''[11]. Therefore, in the development of models for risk analysis for hemorrhaging specifically, CFD analysis must integrate the effects of non-rigid dynamics characteristic of the moments before rupture. 
One such advancement to combat this complexity is the integration of FEA models with current CFD approaches. The workflow for this process, developed by Dr.Kwang-Chun Cho et al. is illustrated below, and was mentioned in an earlier section.  

The above schematic depicts the steps taken by their team for the development of the novel CFD model, and resulting analysis. Such alterations have yielded incredible results, being able to predict 24 out of 27 unruptured aneurysms, and 15 out of 24 ruptured aneurysms. And among the true unruptured, post-operative images show reddish areas indicative prior to rupture. Most importantly, the specificity (88.9%) of this analysis is promising and has the future to be expanded on to help clinicians make better pre-operative decisions, guided by concrete model development.
The next source of advancement in CFD and MRV analysis is more accurate determination of blood viscosity. Meta analysis of relevant papers reveals that roughly 80% of papers involving computational methods to predict the rupture of cerebral aneurysms involve using the Newtonian assumption[12]. Reasons cited involved the vessel diameter being large enough to disregard non-Newtonian behavior, and computations being run which compare the usage of Newtonian to non-Newtonian calculation which find “differences [in flow profile] between the Newtonian and non-Newtonian flow were not statistically significant”[13]. However, several studies have shown that non-Newtonian modelling may be more accurate at especially low velocity blood flow as stagnating vortices, flow separation and recirculating flow occur intra-aneurysmally and throw off the Newtoian models because of these special cases[14-17]. This is of particular interest, as in these instances “conditions indicate a high propensity for thrombus formation and rupture, CFD based on the Newtonian assumption may underestimate the propensity of these events,“ even though it is observed that under normal flow conditions, differing viscosity behavior “[produces] similar intra-aneurysmal flow patterns”[18]. Another study finds that roleaux formation (aggregation of red blood cells) is another factor that warrants integration of non-Newtonian viscosity approximations, even though the practical applications of this involve coarse grained molecular dynamics and ultimately have computational roadblocks[15]. 
Obviously, there is great debate among investigators on whether these non-Newtonian models are really helpful, and even significant in the context of inherent modelling errors. But a general consensus that  “[discourage] the application of current non-Newtonian blood flow models unless highly stagnant regions are observed” is arising[20]. Areas for future advancement in the field of aneurysm prediction models using CFD involve using these non-Newtonian models to characterize intra-aneurysmal blood flow. Now, what non-Newtonian model that will be used is another point of contention. Some studies have attempted to reduce model differences by developing hybrid Newtonian and non-Newtonian Carreau–Yasuda (CY) models that account for rouleax formation time-scale[15]. Others rely on the classic Casson fluid model, a widely used non-Newtonian constitutive equation[21]. One analysis even cites large patient specific variabilities as reason enough to develop blood viscosity models specific to each patient derived “from a clinically available hematocrit value”[22]. Advancements like these are particularly exciting, as we are now able to start reaping the spoils of increased computational power and medical diagnostics to develop patient specific medicine. Good medicine is rooted in patient specific treatments, this is one step in the right direction for biotechnology.







#### Works Cited

[1] NHS Choices, NHS, https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/brain-aneurysm/causes/. 
[2] Saqr, Khalid M, et al. “What Does Computational Fluid Dynamics Tell Us about Intracranial Aneurysms? A Meta-Analysis and Critical Review.” Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism : Official Journal of the International Society of Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism, SAGE Publications, May 2020, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7181089/. 
[3]Seo, Jung-Hee, et al. “A Highly Automated Computational Method for Modeling of Intracranial Aneurysm Hemodynamics.” Frontiers in Physiology, Frontiers Media S.A., 12 June 2018, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6005827/. 
[4]Boussel, Loic, et al. “Phase‐Contrast Magnetic Resonance Imaging Measurements in Intracranial Aneurysms in Vivo of Flow Patterns, Velocity Fields, and Wall Shear Stress: Comparison with Computational Fluid Dynamics.” Wiley Online Library, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd, 22 Jan. 2009, https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/mrm.21861. 
[5] Murayama, Yuichi, et al. “Computational Fluid Dynamics as a Risk Assessment Tool for Aneurysm Rupture.” Focus, American Association of Neurological Surgeons, 1 July 2019, https://thejns.org/focus/view/journals/neurosurg-focus/47/1/article-pE12.xml. 
[6]Chiu, Jeng-Jiann, and Shu Chien. “Effects of Disturbed Flow on Vascular Endothelium: Pathophysiological Basis and Clinical Perspectives.” Physiological Reviews, U.S. National Library of Medicine, Jan. 2011, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3844671/. 
[7]Valen-Sendstad K, Steinman DA. Mind the gap: impact of computational fluid dynamics solution strategy on prediction of intracranial aneurysm hemodynamics and rupture status indicators. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2014 Mar;35(3):536-43. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A3793. Epub 2013 Nov 14. PMID: 24231854; PMCID: PMC7964722.
[8]van Rooij WJ, Sprengers ME, de Gast AN, Peluso JP, Sluzewski M. 3D rotational angiography: the new gold standard in the detection of additional intracranial aneurysms. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2008 May;29(5):976-9. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A0964. Epub 2008 Feb 7. PMID: 18258703; PMCID: PMC8128578.
[9]Kawaguchi, T., Nishimura, S., Kanamori, M., Takazawa, H., Omodaka, S., Sato, K., Maeda, N., Yokoyama, Y., Midorikawa, H., Sasaki, T., & Nishijima, M. (2012). Distinctive flow pattern of wall shear stress and oscillatory shear index: similarity and dissimilarity in ruptured and unruptured cerebral aneurysm blebs, Journal of Neurosurgery JNS, 117(4), 774-780.
[10]Juan R. Cebral, Marcelo A. Castro, James E. Burgess, Richard S. Pergolizzi, Michael J. Sheridan and Christopher M. Putman
American Journal of Neuroradiology November 2005, 26 (10) 2550-2559;
[11]Cho, KC., Yang, H., Kim, JJ. et al. Prediction of rupture risk in cerebral aneurysms by comparing clinical cases with fluid–structure interaction analyses. Sci Rep 10, 18237 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-75362-5
[12]Mahrous, Samar & Che Sidik, Nor Azwadi & Saqr, Khalid. (2020). Newtonian and non-Newtonian CFD Models of Intracranial Aneurysm: A Review. CFD Letters. 12. 62-86.
[13]Lee, U. Y., Jung, J., Kwak, H. S., Lee, D. H., Chung, G. H., Park, J. S., & Koh, E. J. (2019). Patient-Specific Computational Fluid Dynamics in Ruptured Posterior Communicating Aneurysms Using Measured Non-Newtonian Viscosity : A Preliminary Study. Journal of Korean Neurosurgical Society, 62(2), 183–192. https://doi.org/10.3340/jkns.2017.0314
[14]Arzani A. (2018). Accounting for residence-time in blood rheology models: do we really need non-Newtonian blood flow modelling in large arteries?. Journal of the Royal Society, Interface, 15(146), 20180486. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2018.0486
[15]Arzani A. (2018). Accounting for residence-time in blood rheology models: do we really need non-Newtonian blood flow modelling in large arteries?. Journal of the Royal Society, Interface, 15(146), 20180486. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2018.0486
[16]Biasetti J, Hussain F, Gasser TC. 2011. Blood flow and coherent vortices in the normal and aneurysmatic aortas: a fluid dynamical approach to intra-luminal thrombus formation. J. R. Soc. Interface 8, 1449–1461. (10.1098/rsif.2011.0041) 
[17]Morales HG, Larrabide I, Geers AJ, Aguilar ML, Frangi AF. 2013. Newtonian and non-Newtonian blood flow in coiled cerebral aneurysms. J. Biomech. 46, 2158–2164. (10.1016/j.jbiomech.2013.06.034)
 [18]Xiang J, Tremmel M, Kolega J, Levy EI, Natarajan SK, Meng H. Newtonian viscosity model could overestimate wall shear stress in intracranial aneurysm domes and underestimate rupture risk. J Neurointerv Surg. 2012 Sep;4(5):351-7. doi: 10.1136/neurintsurg-2011-010089. Epub 2011 Sep 19. PMID: 21990529.
[19]Arzani A. (2018). Accounting for residence-time in blood rheology models: do we really need non-Newtonian blood flow modelling in large arteries?. Journal of the Royal Society, Interface, 15(146), 20180486. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2018.0486
[20]Robertson AM, Sequeira A, Kameneva MV. 2008. Hemorheology. In Hemodynamical flows (eds Galdi GP, Robertson AM, Rannacher R, Turek S), pp. 63–120. Basel, Switzerland: Birkhauser.
[21]Lee, U. Y., Jung, J., Kwak, H. S., Lee, D. H., Chung, G. H., Park, J. S., & Koh, E. J. (2019). Patient-Specific Computational Fluid Dynamics in Ruptured Posterior Communicating Aneurysms Using Measured Non-Newtonian Viscosity : A Preliminary Study. Journal of Korean Neurosurgical Society, 62(2), 183–192. https://doi.org/10.3340/jkns.2017.0314
[22]Takashi Suzuki, Hiroyuki Takao, Tomoaki Suzuki, Shunsuke Hataoka, Tomonobu Kodama, Ken Aoki, Katharina Otani, Toshihiro Ishibashi, Hideki Yamamoto, Yuichi Murayama, Makoto Yamamoto,Proposalof hematocrit-based non-Newtonian viscosity model and its significance in intracranial aneurysm blood flow simulation,Journal of Non-Newtonian Fluid Mechanics,Volume290,2021,104511,ISSN 0377-0257


